Docs/simplify index pages (#3995)
514-labs/moose: apps/framework-docs-v2/content/moosestack/apis/ingest-api.mdx

---
title: Ingest API
description: Create HTTP endpoints that validate JSON and route records into destination streams
order: 2
category: apis
---

import { Callout, LanguageTabs, LanguageTabContent } from "@/components/mdx";

# Ingest API

> Use `IngestApi` to accept one or more records over HTTP and write accepted records to a destination `Stream` when the producer should not import your Moose SDK or `Stream` definition directly. If the producer can import the stream directly, use [`Stream.send()`](/moosestack/streaming/from-your-code) instead.

Reviewer: That first sentence is doing a lot of work, quite hard to parse.
```suggestion
Use `IngestApi` to send records over HTTP to a `Stream` (for example, from another service, webhook, or client app).
Use `Stream.send()` when writing from code that can access your Moose SDK and stream definition.
```

> This page covers HTTP producers. To define the destination stream itself, start with [Stream](/moosestack/streaming/create-stream).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page covers HTTP-based ingestion. To define the destination Stream, see [Stream](/moosestack/streaming/create-stream).
```

> ## When to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When to use Ingest APIs
```

I think it is clearer and more searchable

> <table>

Reviewer: WHy aren't we using markdown tables? I believe they are supported

  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Use</th>
      <th>Typical scenarios</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="/moosestack/streaming/from-your-code"><code>Stream.send()</code></a></td>
      <td>An existing app in your monorepo or Moose workflows, where you can import the stream definition and other Moose objects directly.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>IngestApi</code></td>
      <td>Services that push events into your system when you do not control that codebase or cannot use Moose objects or clients there directly.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Basic usage

> Use `IngestApi` with a destination `Stream`. Add a dead letter queue when invalid records should be retained for inspection or replay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `IngestApi` with a destination `Stream`. Optionally, add a dead letter queue when invalid records should be retained for inspection or replay.
```

});
```

- Known fields (`timestamp`, `eventName`, etc.) are validated against their declared types
- Additional fields matching the index signature are accepted by the API (no validation error returned)
- All fields, including extra fields, are passed through to downstream stream functions

> - Extra fields can be extracted in your streaming function and stored in a JSON column

Reviewer: we should probably point people to OlapTable definition here?

We've been talking about ingesting into streams for the rest of the page
